In the current lesson, we have an independent work. It is necessary to create a widget that displays
information about the game: the time remaining until the end of the round, the number and total number of rounds and the
number of kills. You can also display the number of deaths. It's up to you.
Let's start solving the task.
Let's start by creating a widget. Go to the UI folder. Find UserWidget in classes.
We call our new widget STUGameDataWidget.
Click create class. In game mode, I created 3 getters in advance: the first one returns GameData, the second one returns the current round,
and the third one returns how much time is left until the end of the round. Move to GameDataWidget.
Let's create public functions to get various values ​​that we need in the interface.
The first function will be called GetKillsNum.
It will return the number of kills made by the character.
The second function is called GetCurrentRoundNum. It will return the current round number.
Let's call the third function GetTotalRoundsNum. It will return the total number of rounds.
The fourth function is called GetRoundSecondsRemaining.
It will return the number of seconds left until the end of the round.
And also in the private section, we will create two helper functions.
One of them will return a pointer to the game mode, and the second to the player state. We do this to improve the
readability of the code. In fact, in these functions, we will simply cast to the types we need.
And we also need to add a forward declaration for our game mode type and for the player state.
Let's create a body for each function.
We do the same for our helper functions.
Let's include the header files game mode and player state. Let's start with the game mode getter function.
The pointer to the game mode is in an object of the UWorld type,
so first we check if it is nonzero and if it is not zero, then we Cast to our game mode type.
The function for getting the game mode is called GetAuthGameMode. If the pointer to the world is nullptr, then we return nulltpr.
Let's move on to the second function. Recall that the controller of the owner of the widget can be obtained using the GetOwningPlayer method.
We also check if this pointer is non-zero,
then we cast the player state to our type.
And if the controller is null, then we return nullptr.
So, the helper functions are ready. Let's start creating basic functions. Let's start with GetKillsNum.
The kill count is in the player state, so we create a local variable and call it PlayerState.
We assign it the value that our GetSTUPlayerState function returns.
Next, we check: if PlayerState is nonzero, then we return the value through the GetKillsNum function, and if it is zero,
then we can simply return 0. The next function is GetCurrentRoundNum. The current round number
is in game mode, so create a local variable as well. We call it GameMode.
We assign it the value that the GetSTUGameMode function returns and check if the GameMode is not null,
then we return the value using the GetCurrentRoundNum function
that I created in advance. And if the pointer is null, then you can return zero.
Moving on. The total number of rounds is also found in GameMode.
We can copy part of the code from the previous function, and if GameMode is nonzero,
then we get access to GameData and return the value of the RoundsNum field. If the pointer is zero, then we just return 0.
And the last function: the number of seconds left until the end of the round. Also, this information is in GameMode.
We get the number of seconds through the GetRoundSecondsRemaining function.
If the pointer to GameMode is null, then we return 0. So, all the functions are ready. The only thing left
to do is add the UFUNCTION macro so that we have access to these functions in the blueprints.
Copy the macro, paste on top of each of the four functions.
We compile the project. Let's create a blueprint widget class in the UI directory.
In the search for all classes, we find our STUGameDataWidget. We inherit from it, call the widget WBP_GameData.
We open the widget. We created a child blueprint class directly from the C ++ class.
We need to add a base element called CanvasPanel. Add it to the object tree.
Let's start with the vertical box element.
Set its property SizeToContent to true and make the x and y coordinates equal to 0.
Find the text UI element. Add it to the tree.
This text block will be responsible for the time of the round. We will have it in the format: minutes: seconds. Let's make it bigger - 45.
Open the PlayerHUD widget and copy the color that we use in the interface.
Insert a color for our counter. The next UI element that we need is also text.
Add it to the tree. We will display information on rounds in this text field.
Current round and total. Also change the color of the text. Add the last text field.
We will display the number of murders in it.
Also change the color.
Let's add a spacer element to defuse the space between the text fields. Let the first spacer have y 20 points,
and the second 10. Let's bind each text. Let's start with the time of the round.
Opposite the text field, click create binding. We call a function that returns the number of seconds
until the end of the round. Convert integer to float. The UE has a handy function to format the
number of seconds in a time. It is called TimeSecondsToString. In the tooltip, we see
that the string is returned in the format: minutes: seconds: milliseconds. We connect it to the final pin.
Next, let's take a look at the rounds. We also create bind. Let's immediately add a node called Append.
It concatenates multiple lines. Enter "Round:" into the first pin.
In the second pin, connect a function that returns the current round - GetCurrentRoundNum.
On the right, you can add an additional pin. We enter "/" into it.
Add another pin. Let's enter the total number of rounds into it - GetTotalRoundsNum.
And we connect the output pin of the append node to the return value of our function.
And the last field is the number of kills. Create bind.
Find the GetKillsNum function. Create an append node.
We connect the value returned by the function to the second pin.
And the first will go "Kills:". We include append in the return node.
The widget is ready, let's add it to the PlayerHUD.
To do this, you can find it in the search, or in the user created category.
Drag GameData onto Canvas. We will set the position at 50 points.
Other elements along the edges have the same offset. This element should also be visible
only when we are alive, so we bind the IsPlayerAlive function for Visibility.
Click play. The widget has appeared. We also see that in the time of the round, milliseconds are displayed, which are equal to zero.
You can get rid of them. We go to the game data widget, in the bind function of our time and the value
returned by the TimeSecondsToString function can be truncated. To do this, we will use a function
called Mid. This function returns a substring. You must specify the starting index
and the number of characters required. We indicate 0 and 5 and milliseconds will not be displayed. Compiling the widget.
Let's change the parameters of the AICharacter for the test so that the NPC is easier to kill. Let's go to the health component.
Set AutoHeal to false and MaxHealth to 20. Compile.
We'll also tweak GameData a bit. Open the GameMode blueprint.
Let's set the round time to 10 seconds.
We start the game. Our widget is slightly obscured by the Unreal Engine interface. Let's start the game in a separate window.
Choose New window editor.
Time is displayed without milliseconds. Rounds are also displayed. Let's wait for the start of the
next round to see that kills are also displayed.
We kill the NPC. Kills = 1, kills = 2. Everything works. And the last test. Let's substitute the round time
to the maximum possible value. The time is 5 minutes. This concludes the lesson with you.